The stories
that I have told you
about Greek gods
and heroes and monsters, they are real.
You are a half-blood,
and half-bloods are not safe
in the world.
They reach a certain age, and they begin
to understand what they are.
Terrible forces are driven
to harm them before they can become
strong enough
to fight back.
Don't worry, Mrs. Jackson.
Percy will be totally safe at camp--
- Swear it.
- I swear.
Mom!
Welcome to camp, Percy Jackson.
We've been expecting you.
Where am I?
You drool when you sleep.
Huh?
It's okay. You're safe.
It really happened.
Well, it's a big deal
to kill a monster like that.
- So, I wanted everyone to know--
- Did you see it?
Did you see what happened to my mom?
I did.
I'm sorry...
for...
everything.
My job was to protect you,
to get you here safely.
Maybe if I'd told you the truth
a little sooner,
- your mom would still be here--
- Please...
stop.
I know this isn't easy
but I wanna talk about it.
I don't.
Your job was to get me here alive.
So your job is done.
Where are you going?
It was so important I get here
'cause my father's a god.
So I'm gonna go find him.
Yeah, but it isn't that... simple.
Excuse me?
I'm Percy Jackson, I'm new here.
Peter Johnson is here!
'Kay. That isn't... really my name.
I guess I'm looking for the office?
- Or whoever's in charge, so...
- Wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait.
Wait, wait, wait. Percy, um,
Mr. D, Camp Director.
Mr. D, this is, uh, Percy Jackson.
Yeah, Grover. I heard him the first time.
- Yeah. But did you?
- Okay.
You really don't wanna start
with this guy.
- He's starting with me.
- Percy,
the D is for Dionysus.
That's Dionysus.
What do you mean, Dionysus? The--
- Like, the god, Dionysus?
- Yes.
- No way.
- Excuse me, Your Highness?
- Oh.
I think my dad
may be around here somewhere.
I don't know how to ask for him.
I don't-- I don't even know his name.
But I think I should see him. I just...
I think I really need that right now.
Can you help me?
Actually...
I think I can.
Son.
- Dad?
- Yes, Peter.
- It's Percy.
- Exactly.
Now, before we get to know each other,
there's something very important
I want you to do for me, okay?
In the galley,
there is a bottle
of 1985 Château Haut-Brion.
Will you go fetch that for me?
Is that really all you have to say to me?
- Hey, um, Mr. D, even if Percy was--
- Uh, uh, uh, bup!
Grover, quiet, please.
This is a nice moment, don't ruin it.
The galley is right down that path.
Grab that bottle and I'll talk to you
about whatever you want.
You know, uh...
you, uh... me, who cares?
- Percy.
- Mr. Brunner?
Uh, Mr. Brunner's real name is Chiron.
Camp activities director,
immortal trainer of heroes, he is--
Grover, thank you. I'll take it from here.
Oh, Percy, this must be a lot
for you to process.
Oh, no. It's-- it's fine.
I mean, you're a horse,
my father won't talk to me
unless I get him a drink.
Well, this all seems totally normal
- and reasonable.
- Oh, no, no, no. No.
Mr. D is not your father.
- I could be.
- Yes, but are you?
Why must you ruin everything?
Mr. D knows that Zeus
has forbidden him from consuming alcohol.
And that demigods are able
to do things for gods
that gods are forbidden
to do for themselves.
Mr. D was taking advantage of that. Hmm?
Eh.
Percy...
walk with me,
and we'll start again. Hm?
Uh, Grover, please give us a moment.
This doesn't feel right.
What, success?
You got the boy to camp alive.
Don't overthink it.
Yeah, but it's...
This is a sacred valley, Percy.
Humans can't see it.
Monsters can't enter it.
The world can't touch it.
Great care was taken to bring you here.
And great sacrifice.
Hey, guys, wait for me!
So, there's something
I gotta tell you.
I lost your pen-sword thingy.
Hopefully, that wasn't your only one.
Check your pocket.
No, I've-- I lost it the other night,
on the hill.
Check your pocket.
Unless you surrender it,
it will always find its way back to you.
Magical objects don't obey
the physical laws of the ordinary world.
Your pen, my wheelchair,
they're all a part of your father's world,
as are you now.
I have something to show you.
Twelve cabins, for twelve Olympian gods.
Each cabin is home
to the children that god has claimed.
Great. Which one am I?
You haven't been claimed, Percy.
Well, when do I get claimed?
Well, the gods reveal their design
in their own time, not before.
Your father might claim you tomorrow,
it might be next week,
- it might be--
- Never.
Even now, he still wants
nothing to do with me.
What am I even doing here?
There's no place for me here.
There is a place for you.
Here...
Hermes, god of travelers.
His cabin is home to both
his own children, and the unclaimed.
- Everyone. Everyone.
- Wait-- wait a minute.
Everyone...
your attention, please.
This is Percy Jackson.
I trust you will see to whatever he needs.
I know you feel powerless,
but you're not.
All will reveal itself in time.
- It jumped up there!
- I see it!
That's the kid. I think
he's the one who killed the Minotaur.
Look, if you want to give me
a hard time, just do it tomorrow.
I can't do any more today.
Heard what happened
to you on the hill. And I just...
wanted to say I'm really sorry.
I know what you're going through.
Believe me.
I'm Luke.
Percy.
You've been picking at them again.
Yeah.
You're too hard on yourself, Grover.
You always have been.
Don't be nervous.
Just be truthful.
Okay.
Mm.
Sooner or later,
you're gonna have to choose.
Sorry to interrupt.
Is now an okay time to talk?
- No!
- Yes, go ahead.
It's Sally Jackson.
I think I know
what really happened to her.
I've never seen a Minotaur
crush a human to death,
but I just... I assume that they'd get
really squishy
or something,
or like... like an old banana, maybe.
- Grover--
- But she evaporated.
Like a monster would.
So, I-- I went to the Cloven Council,
and they had actually heard
of this happening before.
And that, when a mortal
is really close to death,
Hades himself
can actually reach out and--
Yes, we know.
But you haven't told Percy anything yet?
No. No one is gonna tell him anything.
I'm... But doesn't he deserve
to know the truth?
Grover, the truth can be very dangerous
if it isn't handled carefully.
I don't want to lie to him anymore.
Come on.
There are powerful forces
at work here, boy.
Forces that have laid waste
to the Earth before,
and are close to doing it again.
So, you don't wanna lie
to your little friend? Too bad.
I suggest you steer clear of him, then.
Because you will say nothing
to him about this. Do you understand?
Ah, he left you here,
left you with nothing.
I know how you feel.
You want what's been taken from you.
You want justice.
You okay?
Super.
We all have them, you know.
Intense, recurring nightmares.
That's normal here.
And the daydreams, and the ADHD,
and dyslexia.
Demigods just process reality differently
than humans do.
For the first time in your life,
you're just like everyone else.
So are you also...
- Do you not know who your--
- Am I unclaimed?
No, Hermes is my father.
That doesn't matter,
we're all on the same team here.
Why is that okay?
Why do they get to bring us here
to just ignore some of us?
Spend too much time trying to figure out
why the gods do whatever it is they do,
you'll drive yourself crazy.
Sooner you stop worrying about that,
the sooner you can enjoy
what this place actually does offer.
And what's that?
Glory.
Demigods have always fought for glory.
They used to call it kleos.
It's like this stuff
that attaches itself to your name.
Makes it bigger, scarier, more important.
People listen closer when you talk,
they work harder to be your friend
and they think twice
about messing with you.
Hey!
Woah!
Hey. Knock it off, Clarisse.
It's like his first day, come on.
Wait, so this is the kid
who killed the Minotaur. Is that right?
Yeah?
I'll bet.
Look, you want attention
around here, dummy?
You better be ready for it when it comes.
- Well, she seems nice.
- Ares kids.
They come by it honestly.
- Why don't they mess with you?
- They know better.
Luke's the strongest swordsman at camp.
So, they leave you alone because "glory?"
So if I get glory,
Clarisse wouldn't mess with me either?
- Exactly.
- And people think I'm a big deal?
Well, sorta, but--
And my dad's got no choice
but to claim me.
You can't force the gods to do anything.
Well, yeah, but... it would make it harder
for him to pretend I don't exist, right?
- Maybe.
- Well, great.
Where do we start?
A good source of glory are feats of skill.
So, we gotta figure out
what you're good at.
I wanna be very clear about this,
I've never done anything like this before,
and it looks super dangerous.
And you never killed
a Minotaur before either, 'til you did.
I wouldn't.
Should I try again?
- No!
- No! No.
Come on.
Is there a Greek god of disappointment?
Maybe someone should ask him
if he's missing a kid.
Oizys... but she's a goddess.
And her whole thing
isn't really disappointment,
it's more like failure.
We're gonna find the thing
that you're good at. I know it.
- Our turn.
- Our turn for what?
Burnt offerings.
The gods like the smell,
so it gets their attention
before you say a prayer.
They like the smell of burnt mac & cheese?
They like the smell of begging.
You burn what you'll miss the most.
Then they know you really mean
what you're about to say, so they listen.
Hi, Mom.
I don't know if I'm doing this right,
I hope you can hear me.
I think you used to hate this.
When the phone would ring
the night after you left me
at a new school.
I'd tell you that the people are awful.
That I wanted to come home.
Well... the good news is...
this isn't that call.
I hope you're sitting down, but...
I think... I've made some friends here.
Like, real friends.
I think they might really like me.
Imagine that.
He isn't here.
My father, he just...
didn't show.
I mean, ignoring me is one thing,
but he doesn't get to ignore you.
I'm gonna make him come down here.
I'm gonna make him see me.
I'm gonna make him see us both.
Hey, guys. Can't sleep, huh?
Every new kid shows up here
and they think they're special.
Do you think you're special?
No.
Tell me you made it all up
about the Minotaur, and I'll let you go.
I didn't make anything up.
Some kids gotta learn the hard way.
I can explain.
No, you can't.
Okay.
- Wait, I know you.
- No, you don't.
Yeah, but you were there.
That night in the infirmary.
Yes. I'm Annabeth.
Are you stalking me, Annabeth?
Yes.
Okay.
Why?
Well, I've been waiting to see
if something like this would happen.
So I'd know if you can help me.
Help you do what?
Win Capture the Flag.
You're gonna love this.
Camp-wide mock warfare,
all glory to the victors.
Annabeth's the head counselor
of the Athena cabin.
She's led our team to three straight wins.
Been a long time
since anyone's won a fourth.
She was there in the bathroom.
She said she'd been waiting
for it to happen.
Annabeth sees the world differently.
Always six steps ahead of everyone else.
You should cut her a break.
Whose side are you on, anyway?
Oh, hers, always.
She's my little sister.
Maybe I should back up.
Before camp, I was on the road.
Me and a forbidden kid
I met along the way.
Her name was Thalia.
And what does that mean, forbidden?
A long time ago,
Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades
agreed their children
were becoming too powerful,
so they made a pact
not to father any more.
And it held for a long time,
until Zeus broke that pact.
Until Thalia.
A forbidden kid attracts trouble.
Monsters everywhere,
it's just
a constant battle to stay alive.
One day, we, uh, find
this little girl hiding in an alley.
Annabeth. We were worried
about taking her in,
exposing her to all that danger.
Then we saw her fight.
Thalia didn't make it.
But Annabeth and me...
we did.
And we've been family ever since.
She's been watching me
since I got here. Why?
Annabeth is the strongest warrior in camp.
The only way left to prove herself
is to go on a quest.
And what does this have to do with me?
Chiron's been promising her for years.
One day, a demigod would arrive
who was fated to go on a quest
that even Chiron couldn't prevent.
And when that happened, she could join it.
Every new arrival, Annabeth watches,
looking for a sign they're the one.
Usually, she gives up after a day or two,
but she's still watching you.
Can you ask her to knock it off?
Yeah, sure. But what if she's right?
Heroes...
it's time.
The game begins.
The first team to retrieve
the opposing flag and return it
across the river shall be the victor.
As always,
there will be no maiming and no killing.
I trust these rules will be respected.
Any magical items you may possess,
are permitted as well.
- Every camper who is not injured...
- It's okay.
- ...has to play.
- Let her rip.
Prisoners may be disarmed...
I still don't even know what my job is.
- ...but may not be bound or gagged.
- Maybe I won't even need a sword.
Let the games begin.
I'm gonna need a sword.
All right. We have 20 minutes
before the second conch and game-on.
- You know what you're doing?
- Yes, ma'am.
Hey.
Today feel like
a winning kind of day to you?
I'll see you on the other side.
Company! Move out!
Kleos!
Not you, sunshine. You're with me.
Advance!
- Move ahead!
- Stay in position!
I'm fine, thanks. But I appreciate you,
you know, standing there silently.
Listen, I-- I get it. Okay.
Y-- You're better at this than me,
but I need this to go well today.
I can't really get into it,
but I need my father to see it go well.
So, if you're gonna expect me
to know how to do something
I don't know how to do...
and I end up falling flat on my face,
I-- I can't really have that right now.
You still don't get where you fit
into all this, do you?
Game on.
Wait, what?
Gift from my mom.
Don't worry, you'll do great.
Do great? Do what great?
We give up.
I wanna move quick.
Straight through the woods to their flag.
Clarisse hunts in those woods
for the first few hours, you know that.
- She's gonna cut us down.
- Annabeth's got a plan.
Percy's on it.
When it's time,
he's gonna be ready. I know it.
Flag's that way. It's not here.
We know.
Yeah, glory's fine.
Revenge is more fun.
No maiming. It's like the one rule.
Yeah, I guess I'll lose
dessert privileges for a while.
I'll live.
I'm actually not interested in maiming
or killing you, believe it or not.
I just want you to admit you're a fraud.
It'd make me feel better.
Are you feeling up to that yet?
Guess that's a no.
Get back!
No!
Yeah!
Not bad, hero.
Were you here the whole time?
Yes.
You were here the whole time
and you didn't help me?
- Yes.
- Why?
Listen...
Percy.
I'm sorry.
What is wrong with you?
I don't understand.
Your dad's calling.
You have been claimed by Poseidon,
Earthshaker, Stormbringer.
Percy Jackson,
son of Poseidon.
As a forbidden child of the Sea God,
you are singular amongst demigods.
And your father's only hope
to prevent the outbreak of war.
For months now,
Zeus and Poseidon have been locked
in a dispute over the master bolt.
The symbol of Zeus's authority,
and it has been stolen.
- Who stole it?
- You did.
What?
Zeus is looking for a thief,
sees a forbidden child
claimed by his jealous brother...
It doesn't look good for you, kid.
I didn't do anything.
Of course, you didn't.
But your father needs your help.
An ultimatum has been given to him by Zeus
that if he doesn't return the bolt
by the summer solstice in one week...
there will be war.
That is your quest.
You must leave immediately.
Leave? Leave for where?
Zeus is king on Olympus
and Poseidon has always resented it, but...
there is a third brother
who has always deeply resented them both.
- It's Hades.
- Yes.
The bolt is with Hades. In the Underworld.
I know it sounds daunting.
But you won't be alone,
a quest is always undertaken by three.
Great. Good luck finding those guys,
'cause it ain't gonna be me.
Poseidon has claimed you.
This is his will.
Poseidon has ignored me my entire life.
- You are his son.
- I am Sally Jackson's son.
Who's Sally Jackson?
She's the one who cared enough
to call herself my mother.
She's the one who got herself killed,
so that I could be safe here.
The fate of the world
hangs in the balance.
- You will accept this quest!
- I won't!
- Hey, everybody.
- You--
Grover, now is not the time.
I'm sorry, sir. But I have news.
- Grover...
- Sally Jackson is alive.
It looked like she died,
but it only looked that way.
- Grover.
- Your mother was stolen...
by Hades.
Which means she's with him now,
in the Underworld.
That's where they want
you to go too, isn't it?
If you can find her there...
I think you can bring her back.
When do we leave?
Maia.
It's a pleasure to meet you,
son of Poseidon.
I'm Medusa.